Introduce Assembly Metadata Resource Detector (#2949)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-dotnet-contrib: src/OpenTelemetry.Resources.AssemblyMetadata/README.md

# Assembly Metadata Resource Detector

| Status      |                                                    |
|-------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| Stability   | [Alpha](../../README.md#alpha)                     |
| Code Owners | [@austindrenski](https://github.com/austindrenski) |

[![NuGet version badge](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/OpenTelemetry.Resources.AssemblyMetadata)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenTelemetry.Resources.AssemblyMetadata)
[![NuGet download count badge](https://img.shields.io/nuget/dt/OpenTelemetry.Resources.AssemblyMetadata)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenTelemetry.Resources.AssemblyMetadata)
[![codecov.io](https://codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-dotnet-contrib/branch/main/graphs/badge.svg?flag=unittests-Resources.AssemblyMetadata)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-dotnet-contrib?flags[0]=unittests-Resources.AssemblyMetadata)

## Getting Started

You need to install the `OpenTelemetry.Resources.AssemblyMetadata` package to be able to use the Assembly Metadata Resource Detector.

```shell
dotnet add package --prerelease OpenTelemetry.Resources.AssemblyMetadata
```

## Usage

> You can add the Assembly Metadata Resource Detector to the `ResourceBuilder` with the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add the Assembly Metadata Resource Detector to the `ResourceBuilder` as shown by the following example:
```

```csharp
using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder;
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using OpenTelemetry.Resources;

var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

builder.Services.AddOpenTelemetry()
    .ConfigureResource(static builder => builder.AddAssemblyMetadataDetector())
    .WithLogging(static builder => /* ... */)
    .WithMetrics(static builder => /* ... */)
    .WithTracing(static builder => /* ... */);
```

> The resource detector will record attributes defined on the [entry assembly](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.reflection.assembly.getentryassembly) using [AssemblyMetadataAttribute](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.reflection.assemblymetadataattribute) with keys prefixed by `otel:`.

Reviewer: This would also need to be updated if the overload for specifying the assemblies were added.

```suggestion
The resource detector will add resource attributes defined on the [entry assembly](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.reflection.assembly.getentryassembly) using [AssemblyMetadataAttribute](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.reflection.assemblymetadataattribute) with keys prefixed by `otel:`.
```

The `OpenTelemetry.Resources.AssemblyMetadata` package includes an MSBuild `.targets` file which defines a new item type, `OtelResourceAttribute`, which can be used to define resource attributes in MSBuild project files.

The following example demonstrates how you can use pre-existing [SourceLink](https://github.com/dotnet/sourcelink) metadata
to populate the [`vcs.ref.head.name`](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/registry/attributes/vcs/#vcs-ref-head-name), [`vcs.ref.head.revision`](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/registry/attributes/vcs/#vcs-ref-head-revision), and [`vcs.repository.url.full`](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/registry/attributes/vcs/#vcs-repository-url-full) attributes:

```csproj
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Web">

  <PropertyGroup>...</PropertyGroup>

  <ItemGroup>
    <OtelResourceAttribute Include="vcs.ref.head.name" Value="$(SourceBranchName)" />
    <OtelResourceAttribute Include="vcs.ref.head.revision" Value="$(SourceRevisionId)" />
    <OtelResourceAttribute Include="vcs.repository.url.full" Value="$(RepositoryUrl)" />

>   </ItemGroup>

Reviewer: I think this specific use-case would be better served by a resource detector that is [SourceLink-aware](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/debugger/how-to-improve-diagnostics-debugging-with-sourcelink) and automatically adds these resource attributes for the user based on the presence of the known properties associated with it that are part of the [Semantic Conventions](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions).

For example the part after the `+` in `AssemblyInformationalVersion` would map to `vcs.ref.head.revision`, `AssemblyMetadata` where `Key=RepositoryUrl` would map to `vcs.repository.url.full`, etc.

Or do it automatically via a built-in target that's doing what the example is.

I think as-is, the PR is sort of half way between too-custom and not plug-and-play enough, if you get what I mean.

  <ItemGroup>
    <PackageReference Include="OpenTelemetry.Resources.AssemblyMetadata" />
  </ItemGroup>

</Project>
```

Alternatively, these attributes could be set from user-defined environment variables set in the build environment:

```csproj
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Web">

  <PropertyGroup>...</PropertyGroup>

  <ItemGroup>
    <OtelResourceAttribute Include="vcs.ref.head.name" Value="$(VCS_REF_HEAD_NAME)" />
    <OtelResourceAttribute Include="vcs.ref.head.revision" Value="$(VCS_REF_HEAD_REVISION)" />
    <OtelResourceAttribute Include="vcs.repository.url.full" Value="$(VCS_REPOSITORY_URL_FULL)" />
  </ItemGroup>

  <ItemGroup>
    <PackageReference Include="OpenTelemetry.Resources.AssemblyMetadata" />
  </ItemGroup>

</Project>
```

> You can check on the output from these items by inspecting the `$(AssemblyName).AssemblyInfo.cs` file in your intermediate output path (e.g. `SomeProject/obj/debug/SomeProject.AssemblyInfo.cs`):

Reviewer: It feels too detailed to include this generated code example in the README, IMHO. For me, this is more of a compiler implementation detail than one for the resource detector.
